## Before you start working on the issue

> We are assuming you are using Linear. If that's not the case, follow the same principles with whatever task management system you have.

When you get an issue to work on, please make sure that:

- You are the `Assignee` on the issue
- You put the issue in `In Progress` status
- You create Git branch with the name generated by Linear

By using this name, Linear will automatically move your issue to:

- `Review` status when you create a Pull Request
- `Done` status when you merge a Pull Request

## Pull Request

### Title

When you merge a Pull Request all your commits get squashed. Changes are merged to `main` branch as a single commit with the Pull Request Title as a commit message.
To make our commit history organized we follow [Conventional Commits](https://www.conventionalcommits.org/en/v1.0.0/) specification when writing Pull Request Title.

Format:

```
<type>[optional scope]: <description>
```

Example:

```
feat(investor): sign investment transaction
```

**Type**:

- `build`: Changes that affect the build system or external dependencies
- `ci`: Changes to our CI configuration files and scripts
- `docs`: Documentation only changes
- `feat`: A new feature
- `fix`: A bug fix
- `perf`: A code change that improves performance
- `refactor`: A code change that neither fixes a bug nor adds a feature
- `style`: Changes that do not affect the meaning of the code (white space, formatting, missing semi-colons, etc.)
- `test`: Adding missing tests or correcting existing tests

**Scope**:

The scope may be provided to a commit’s type, to provide additional contextual information.

- `admin`
- `contracts`: Changes in smart contracts / network package
- `founder`
- `fundraising`
- `investor`
- `logger`
- `network`
- `onboarding`
- `public`: Public-facing pages

**Description**:

The description is a short summary of the code changes.

### Description:

When you are writing a Pull Request description, please follow the instructions from the Pull Request template. You can find the examples for [bug](./pr_template_example_bug.md) and [feature](./pr_template_example_feature.md) use-cases.

### Comments:

When you create a Pull Request `Reviewers` are automatically assigned based on the configuration in the `CODEOWNERS` file.

You should reply to every comment. When the comment requests a change, reply to the comment with the hash of the commit with the fix. It is encouraged to do small commits, ideally one commit per change request, so that it can be easily verified by the reviewer. When the reviewer finds your solution correct, he resolves his comment. Please don't resolve comments yourself, lease this up to the reviewer.

All members of the team should do code reviews. It is recommended to do code reviews at the beginning of your day so that we can merge Pull Request as soon as possible.

Don't leave a review with `Request changes`, because it blocks the Pull Request from being merged. Pull Request can be merged only when the person requesting the changes explicitly approves the Pull Request. When you suddenly get sick or unavailable, the only way how to merge the feature is to open a new one that loses the context of the previous Pull Request. You can rely on the assignee that he answers all of the comments and merge only after all of them are resolved.
