i18n was created with the utilization of these blogs:

- [All side optimized Next.js translations](https://locize.com/blog/next-i18next/)
- [Static HTML Export with i18n compatibility in Next.js](https://locize.com/blog/next-i18n-static/)

# Intro

SSG (Static Site Generation) and SSR (Server-Side Rendering) are two popular approaches to rendering web pages with NextJS. Both techniques have their unique strengths and use cases, and it's essential to understand the differences between them to decide which one to use for a particular use case.

## Static Site Generation (SSG):

SSG generates the HTML for a page at build time, and the same HTML is served to all visitors. SSG is ideal for content that doesn't change frequently or user-specific content. SSG can provide excellent performance as it does not require server-side processing for every page request.

Use cases of SSG:

- Blogs or news websites that don't update their content very frequently.
- E-commerce sites that have static pages like About Us, Contact Us, and FAQ.
- Websites with pages that require extensive data processing or complex data computations.

When not to use SSG:

- Websites that have dynamic pages with constantly changing content.
- Websites that require real-time data or user-specific content.
- Websites that require server-side processing for every page request.

## Server-Side Rendering (SSR):

SSR generates the HTML for a page on the server-side at runtime, providing dynamic content based on user requests. SSR is ideal for websites that require frequent updates or user-specific content. SSR has a slower initial load time than SSG but provides better performance for dynamic content.

Use cases of SSR:

- Websites with dynamic pages that change frequently, like social media platforms.
- Websites that require user authentication and personalization.
- Websites with pages that require server-side processing for every page request.

When not to use SSR:

- Websites with mostly static content that doesn't change frequently.
- Websites that don't require user-specific content or real-time data.
- Websites with pages that don't require server-side processing for every page request.

In summary, SSG and SSR are two different approaches to rendering web pages with NextJS, and their use cases depend on the website's content and requirements. SSG is ideal for static content that doesn't change frequently, while SSR is suitable for dynamic content that changes frequently or requires user-specific content.

# Why we chose to use SSR i18n in the template?

SSG (Static Site Generation) is not suitable for applications with authorization and serving user-specific context because the content is generated at build time and cannot be personalized based on user-specific data.

In an application with authorization, the content that is displayed to the user depends on their authentication status and their specific permissions. For example, if a user is not logged in, they might see a login page, whereas if they are logged in, they might see personalized content. However, with SSG, the content is generated at build time, and it cannot be personalized based on user-specific data. This means that if the content is generated before the user logs in, they might see content that is not relevant to them or that they don't have permission to access.

Similarly, for applications that serve user-specific content, SSG is not suitable as the content is generated once and served to all users. For example, an e-commerce website that shows personalized product recommendations or a social media platform that displays personalized content based on user interests cannot use SSG as the content is generated before the user interacts with the website. This means that the user might see content that is not relevant to them or that does not reflect their current preferences.

In summary, SSG is not suitable for applications with authorization and serving user-specific content because the content is generated at build time and cannot be personalized based on user-specific data. For such applications, Server-Side Rendering (SSR) or client-side rendering (CSR) may be more appropriate as they allow for dynamic content generation based on user-specific data.

The `next export` command in NextJS generates a static website by pre-rendering all the pages at build time. However, this export does not include the API routes. This means that any API calls that are made from the client-side will fail as the API routes are not available.

# How to add new language

The first step is to add the new language to the list of locales in your Next.js configuration. This is done in the `next-i18next.config.js` file. The configuration should look something like this:

```javascript
module.exports = {
  // debug: process.env.NODE_ENV === 'development',
  i18n: {
    defaultLocale: 'en',
    locales: ['en', 'newLanguage'],
  },
  localePath:
    // eslint-disable-next-line @typescript-eslint/no-var-requires
    typeof window === 'undefined' ? require('path').resolve('./public/locales') : '/locales',

  reloadOnPrerender: process.env.NODE_ENV === 'development',
}
```

Replace 'newLanguage' with the new language you want to add.

Then, add translation files for the new language. These files should be added to the `public/locales/newLanguage` directory. The name of the translation files should match the namespaces that is used in the components. For example, if you have a namespace 'common', you would create a file public/locales/newLanguage/common.json.
If you would like to use new language also in Storybook, you should update `.storybook/i18next.ts` file and add new language

```typescript
const supportedLngs = ['en', 'newLanguage']
```

## How to add new namespace used in locales

The first step is to create a new translation file in the locales directory. The name of this file will be the name of the namespace. For example, if you want to create a namespace called "dashboard", you would create a new file under each language directory called dashboard.json. So if you have English and German locales, you would have:

```
└── public
    └── locales
        ├── en
        |   ├── common.json
        |   └── dashboard.json
        └── de
            ├── common.json
            └── dashboard.json

```

Each dashboard.json file would contain the translations for the dashboard namespace for that specific language.

Then, add your translations to the new file. For example, your `dashboard.json` file might look like this (for English):

```json
{
  "welcome": "Welcome to the dashboard",
  "logout": "Logout"
}
```

Then, register new namespace in `@types/i18next.d.ts`

```typescript
import type admin from '../public/locales/en/admin.json'
import type dashboard from '../public/locales/en/dashboard.json'
import 'i18next'

interface I18nNamespaces {
  admin: typeof admin
  dashboard: typeof dashboard
}
```

If you would like to use new namespace in Storybook, you should update `.storybook/i18next.ts` file and add new namespace:

```typescript
const ns = ['admin', 'common', 'error', 'member', 'dashboard']
```

# How to setup i18n for SSG?

Merge branch [i18n-ssg](https://github.com/sudolabs-io/nextjs-template/tree/i18n-ssg), then:

1. You need to add a comment on the i18n configuration in the NextJS config file. By default, the i18n configuration is defined in `next.config.js`.
2. Next, replace all instances of the `next/link` component with a custom Link component that wraps the next/link component and provides the necessary i18n-related props.
3. To use i18n on static pages, we need to define a getStaticProps function that initializes the i18n namespace with the required translations. Add the following code to every static page that requires i18n:

```ts
import { getStaticPaths, makeStaticProps } from 'utils/getStatic'

const getStaticProps = makeStaticProps([NS])
export { getStaticPaths, getStaticProps }
```

4. Every static page must be defined in `[locale]` directory
5. Add `page.tsx` file to root directory for every static page with content

```ts
import { Redirect } from 'utils/redirect'

export default Redirect
```

This simple page acts as a bridge between the language-specific page in the [locale] directory and the corresponding page in the root directory. It is used to ensure that requests for the language-specific page are correctly redirected to the lang directory when necessary.
